README.md, before:

# CSS Element Queries


[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/marcj/css-element-queries?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge)

Element Queries is a polyfill adding support for element based media-queries to all new browsers (incl. IE7+).
It allows not only to define media-queries based on window-size but also adds 'media-queries' functionality depending on element (any selector supported)
size while not causing performance lags due to event based implementation.

It's a proof-of-concept event-based CSS element dimension query with valid CSS selector syntax.

Features:

 - no performance issues since it listens only on size changes of elements that have element query rules defined through css. Other element query polifills only listen on `window.onresize` which causes performance issues and allows only to detect changes via window.resize event and not inside layout changes like css3 animation, :hover, DOM changes etc.
 - no interval/timeout detection. Truly event-based through integrated ResizeSensor class.
 - no CSS modifications. Valid CSS Syntax
 - all CSS selectors available. Uses regular attribute selector. No need to write rules in HTML.
 - supports and tested in webkit, gecko and IE(7/8/9/10/11)
 - `min-width`, `min-height`, `max-width` and `max-height` are supported so far
 - works with any layout modifications: HTML (innerHTML etc), inline styles, DOM mutation, CSS3 transitions, fluid layout changes (also percent changes), pseudo classes (:hover etc.), window resizes and more
 - no Javascript-Framework dependency (works with jQuery, Mootools, etc.)
 - Works beautiful for responsive images without FOUC

More demos and information: http://marcj.github.io/css-element-queries/

## Examples

### Element Query

```css
.widget-name h2 {
    font-size: 12px;
}

.widget-name[min-width~="400px"] h2 {
    font-size: 18px;
}

.widget-name[min-width~="600px"] h2 {
    padding: 55px;
    text-align: center;
    font-size: 24px;
}

.widget-name[min-width~="700px"] h2 {
    font-size: 34px;
    color: red;
}
```

As you can see we use the `~=` [attribute selector](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Attribute_selectors).
Since this css-element-queries polyfill adds new element attributes on the DOM element
(`<div class="widget-name" min-width="400px 700px"></div>`) depending on your actual CSS,
you should always use this attribute selector (especially if you have several element query rules on the same element).

```html
<div class="widget-name">
   <h2>Element responsiveness FTW!</h2>
</div>
```

### Responsive image

```html
    <div data-responsive-image>
        <img data-src="http://placehold.it/350x150"/>
        <img min-width="350" data-src="http://placehold.it/700x300"/>
        <img min-width="700" data-src="http://placehold.it/1400x600"/>
    </div>
```

Include the javascript files at the bottom and you're good to go. No custom javascript calls needed.

```html
<script src="src/ResizeSensor.js"></script>
<script src="src/ElementQueries.js"></script>
```

## See it in action:

Here live http://marcj.github.io/css-element-queries/.

![Demo](http://marcj.github.io/css-element-queries/images/css-element-queries-demo.gif)


## Module Loader

If you're using a module loader you need to trigger the event listening or initialization yourself:

```javascript
var ElementQueries = require('css-element-queries/src/ElementQueries');

 //attaches to DOMLoadContent
ElementQueries.listen();

//or if you want to trigger it yourself.
// Parse all available CSS and attach ResizeSensor to those elements which have rules attached
// (make sure this is called after 'load' event, because CSS files are not ready when domReady is fired.
ElementQueries.init();
```

## Issues

 - So far does not work on `img` and other elements that can't contain other elements. Wrapping with a `div` works fine though (See demo).
 - Adds additional hidden elements into selected target element and forces target element to be relative or absolute.
 - Local stylesheets do not work (using `file://` protocol).

## License

MIT license. Copyright [Marc J. Schmidt](https://twitter.com/MarcJSchmidt).

Commit message:

Added dynamic tracking of newly created elements (supporting angular&co).
Removed element tracking.
Dropped IE9 and lower support.
Fixed sensor bug with invisible elements.
Addet reset() method to ResizeSensor.

README.md, after:

# CSS Element Queries


[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/marcj/css-element-queries?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge)

Element Queries is a polyfill adding support for element based media-queries to all new browsers (incl. IE7+).
It allows not only to define media-queries based on window-size but also adds 'media-queries' functionality depending on element (any selector supported)
size while not causing performance lags due to event based implementation.

It's a proof-of-concept event-based CSS element dimension query with valid CSS selector syntax.

Features:

 - no performance issues since it listens only on size changes of elements that have element query rules defined through css. Other element query polifills only listen on `window.onresize` which causes performance issues and allows only to detect changes via window.resize event and not inside layout changes like css3 animation, :hover, DOM changes etc.
 - no interval/timeout detection. Truly event-based through integrated ResizeSensor class.
 - automatically discovers new DOM elements. No need to call javascript manually.
 - no CSS modifications. Valid CSS Syntax
 - all CSS selectors available. Uses regular attribute selector. No need to write rules in HTML/JS.
 - supports and tested in webkit, gecko and IE(10+)
 - `min-width`, `min-height`, `max-width` and `max-height` are supported so far
 - works with any layout modifications: HTML (innerHTML etc), inline styles, DOM mutation, CSS3 transitions, fluid layout changes (also percent changes), pseudo classes (:hover etc.), window resizes and more
 - no Javascript-Framework dependency (works with jQuery, Mootools, etc.)
 - Works beautiful for responsive images without FOUC

More demos and information: http://marcj.github.io/css-element-queries/

## Examples

### Element Query

```css
.widget-name h2 {
    font-size: 12px;
}

.widget-name[min-width~="400px"] h2 {
    font-size: 18px;
}

.widget-name[min-width~="600px"] h2 {
    padding: 55px;
    text-align: center;
    font-size: 24px;
}

.widget-name[min-width~="700px"] h2 {
    font-size: 34px;
    color: red;
}
```

As you can see we use the `~=` [attribute selector](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Attribute_selectors).
Since this css-element-queries polyfill adds new element attributes on the DOM element
(`<div class="widget-name" min-width="400px 700px"></div>`) depending on your actual CSS and element's dimension,
you should always use this attribute selector (especially if you have several element query rules on the same element).

```html
<div class="widget-name">
   <h2>Element responsiveness FTW!</h2>
</div>
```

### Responsive image

```html
    <div data-responsive-image>
        <img data-src="http://placehold.it/350x150"/>
        <img min-width="350" data-src="http://placehold.it/700x300"/>
        <img min-width="700" data-src="http://placehold.it/1400x600"/>
    </div>
```

Include the javascript files at the bottom and you're good to go. No custom javascript calls needed.

```html
<script src="src/ResizeSensor.js"></script>
<script src="src/ElementQueries.js"></script>
```

## See it in action:

Here live http://marcj.github.io/css-element-queries/.

![Demo](http://marcj.github.io/css-element-queries/images/css-element-queries-demo.gif)


## Module Loader

If you're using a module loader you need to trigger the event listening or initialization yourself:

```javascript
var ElementQueries = require('css-element-queries/src/ElementQueries');

 //attaches to DOMLoadContent
ElementQueries.listen();

//or if you want to trigger it yourself.
// Parse all available CSS and attach ResizeSensor to those elements which have rules attached
// (make sure this is called after 'load' event, because CSS files are not ready when domReady is fired.
ElementQueries.init();
```

## Issues

 - So far does not work on `img` and other elements that can't contain other elements. Wrapping with a `div` works fine though (See demo).
 - Adds additional hidden elements into selected target element and forces target element to be relative or absolute.
 - Local stylesheets do not work (using `file://` protocol).
 - If you have rules on an element that has a css animation, also add `element-queries`. E.g. `.widget-name { animation: 2sec my-animation, 1s element-queries;}`. We use this to detect new added DOM elements automatically.

## License

MIT license. Copyright [Marc J. Schmidt](https://twitter.com/MarcJSchmidt).
